{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049\deftab708{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset204{\*\fname Arial;}Arial CYR;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2500;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\f0\fs16 FastReport 2.5\lang1033\f1 6\lang1049\f0\par
for Delphi 4-7,2005\lang1033\f1 ,2006\lang1049\f0  & C++Builder 4-6\par
\par
\par
READ THIS FILE ACCURATELY BEFORE INSTALLING FR2.54!\par
\par
\par
VERY IMPORTANT! \par
   Before installing, remove older packages of FastReport from the Delphi\par
component palette and remove paths to older version sources from\par
Tools->Environment Options->Library->Library Path!\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\par
1. Introduction\par
2. Capabilities\par
3. Installing\par
4. Backward compatibility\par
5. Changes\par
6. Ordering\par
7. Notes\par
8. Credits\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
1. INTRODUCTION\par
   FastReport is reporting tool component. It consists of report engine,\par
designer and preview. It written on 100% Object Pascal and can be installed\par
in Delphi 4-7,2005 and C++Builder 4-6. Also available cross-platform version\par
FR CLX for Delphi 6,7 C++ Builder 6 and Kylix 1,2,3 - check out webpage to \par
get latest information. \par
\par
   FastReport 2.54 is "try before buy". See "Ordering" topic for details.\par
\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
2. CAPABILITIES\par
- Fast, compact and flexible code allows you to extend FR functionality.\par
  No additional DLLs needed.\par
- Built-in powerful and easy-to-use designer (also available in run-time).\par
- Suitable MSWord-like report preview with "Search text" and "Edit" functions.\par
- Set of most useful components: Text, Line, Picture, Shape, OLE, RichText,\par
  Chart, Barcode. You can also write your own components.\par
- Ability to export your reports to other formats (such as TXT, RTF, CSV,\par
  HTML, PDF and other). \par
- Built-in Pascal-like language allows you write code without programming\par
  in Delphi. It allows you to create reports that can't be created in other\par
  tools.\par
- Script editor with syntax highligt.\par
- FR reports can contain dialogue forms that you can use to ask\par
  parameters before prepare a report. You can have as many dialogs as you need.\par
  FR uses the same designer for dialogs and have set of standart dialog\par
  controls like Button, Edit, CheckBox and other.\par
- Set of DB engines for FR allow you to create table/query/database components\par
  in run-time. Your reports can be completely independent of your application!\par
- FR can obtain data from tables and queries, arrays and data files - from\par
  any source. FR is not BDE-dependent, you can use it with *any* DB library\par
  that is based on standard TDataset component. You can also use FR with\par
  IB_Objects - powerful and wide-known library for Interbase DBMS.\par
- Localization in 21 languages. You can use FR in international applications.\par
- Full Bi-directional text output.\par
\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
3. INSTALLING\par
\par
   FR2.54 includes full source code. Trial version contains almost all sources\par
(only one compiled unit FR_Class.dcu / FR_class.obj ). \par
! DON'T CHANGE ANYTHING IN FR.INC FILE OF TRIAL FR VERSION !\par
\par
3.1. Run fr254.exe and follow to instructions of installation program\par
\par
3.2. FastReport supports a significant number of languages.\par
\par
   FastReport has several language sets: English, German, French, Danish, \par
Portuguese-brazil, Spanish, Dutch, Swedish, Turkish, Italian, Polish, Czech, \par
Hungarian, Slovene, Catalon, Slovak, Russian, Chinese, Ukrainian. \par
   Resources are located in ..\\FR\\RES folder. By default, FastReport library \par
setups with English resources. To use German resources, copy the files with \par
RES-extensions from ..\\FR\\RES\\GERMAN folder to ..\\FR\\SOURCE folder and \par
recompile package (see more in setup.txt).\par
That way, you can make your application fully German, French etc\par
\par
   WARNING! The old datamanager (TfrDataStorage) is outdated. It included in\par
this FR version, but will be removed in the next version. We highly \par
recommended to stop using it, move to new components and convert your existing\par
reports.\par
\par
3.3. For recompile libraries see setup.txt\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
4. BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY\par
   .frf files from FR2.1...FR2.54 is compatible. You can use FR2.1 .frf\par
in FR2.4; but you can't use new .frf files in older FR versions and builds.\par
   See faq.txt if you want to open FreeReport 2.21 files.\par
   FR CLX files can be opened by FR2.45 version and higher. \par
Since CLX and VCL uses different paper numbering you may need to change \par
paper format after opening FR CLX report file. \par
   Old datamanager (TfrDataManager) is not installed by default. Remove\par
comment from \{$DEFINE DATAMANAGER\} line in FR.inc file to install it.\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
5. Changes in FastReport v2.54:\par
\par
- bug fixes\par
\par
See full changes list in file changes.txt\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
6. ORDERING\par
   FastReport 2.54 is "try before buy". You can try trial version of \par
FastReport2.54, which prints only one page of report with nag label \par
"FastReport - unregistered". Full version of FR shipped with full source code.\par
   Single copy of FR2.53 costs $99. Site license (unlimited number of copies)\par
costs $990. You can register it with RegisterNow! or ShareIt online services\par
which accepts all kinds of payment. \par
  Use this link for register: http://www.fast-report.com/en/buynow.php \par
Registered users gets technical support and can upgrade to the next\par
version of FR with no additional payment (FR CLX is separate product, you need\par
to buy it even if you already registered FR 2.54).\par
\par
See Dealers.txt for more information about our resellers in countries.\par
\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
7. NOTES\par
   All units written by authors, except the following:\par
 - RichEdit editor taked from \\DEMOS\\RICHEDIT.\par
 - Delphi version determining taken from RX 2.60.\par
 - TfrSpeedButton component is based on RX TrxSpeedButton.\par
 - Barcode component (frBarcod.pas) is written by Andreas Schmidt\par
   and friends (freeware).\par
 - See also "CREDITS" topic.\par
\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
8. CREDITS\par
\par
Olivier Guilbaud <golivier@free.fr>:\par
 - Barcode add-in (FR_BarC.pas)\par
 - RoundRect add-in (FR_RRect.pas)\par
 - Interface with OpenQueryBuilder (FR_QBEng.pas)\par
\par
Dmitry Statilko <dima_misc@hotbox.ru>:\par
 - Flat comboboxes (FR_Combo.pas)\par
\par
Andrew Semack <sammy@profix.poltava.ua>:\par
 - Interface with IB_Objects\par
\par
EMS Company, Alexander Khvastunov <avx@ems.chel.su>:\par
 - TfrIBXComponents\par
 - TfrFIBComponents\par
\par
Michael Shmakov <misha@petrosoft.karelia.ru>:\par
 - TfrDAOComponents\par
\par
Andrew Dyrda <andrewdyrda@chat.ru>:\par
 - Documentation\par
\par
Konstantin Butov <kos@sp.iae.nsk.su>:\par
 - Idea and first version of TfrPrintGrid component\par
\par
Sergey Repalov <ReSerg@mail.ru>:\par
 - TfrRTF_RS_ExportFilter\par
\par
Oleg Kharin <ok@uvadrev.udmnet.ru>:\par
 - Full WYSIWYG support\par
\par
Stalker <stalker732_4@yahoo.com>:\par
 - A lot of suggestions and bug reports\par
 - TfrAsaComponents and others\par
\par
Boris Loboda <barry@audit.kharkov.com>:\par
 - Help with hosting\par
\par
Akzhan Abdulin <akzhan@mtgroup.ru>:\par
 - Life-time "moderatorial [-]" in RU.DELPHI :))\par
\par
Pavel Ishenin <webpirat@mail.ru>\par
 - RTF, HTM export;\par
 - TfrCrossView enchancements\par
\par
Vasilij Kirichenko <fr2html@mail.ru>\par
 - Advanced HTML export;\par
\par
Gord Knight <gknight3@cogeco.ca>\par
 - moderator of FastReport's yahoo group\par
\par
Pierre du Parte <fr@finalfiler.com>\par
 - moderator of FastReport's yahoo group\par
\par
Localization:\par
 - Carsten Bech <carsten.bech@teliamail.dk> (danish)\par
 - Wy <wy6688@163.net> (chinese)\par
 - Roberto Mambriani <rmambriani@fasanocomputers.com> (italian)\par
 - Bartlomiej Zass <zass@pro.onet.pl> (polish)\par
 - Bolek Umnicki <strato@polandmail.com> (polish)\par
 - Josep Mas <xci@jet.es> (catalan)\par
 - Nei <coopcred@leosoft.com.br> (portuguese-brazil)\par
 - Isaque Pinheiro <axial@escelsa.com.br> (portuguese-brazil)\par
 - Bobby Gallagher <bobbyg@indigo.ie> (english)\par
 - Francisco Purrinos <purrinhos@cif.es> (spanish)\par
 - Andreas Pohl <apohl@ibp-consult.com> (german)\par
 - Stefan Diestelmann <sd@itsds.de> (german)\par
 - Arpad Toth <ekosoft@signalsoft.sk> (czech, slovak)\par
 - Le Hung <lehung@main.antszbar.hu> (hungary)\par
 - Tochenjuk Oleg <frodo@uct.kiev.ua> (ukrainian)\par
 - Pierre Demers <dempier2@hotmail.com> (french)\par
 - Olivier Guilbaud <golivier@free.fr> (french)\par
 - Craig Manley <c.manley@chello.nl> (dutch)\par
 - Burhan Chakmak <bakisoft@nursat.kz> (turkish)\par
 - Jan W <jan@ideida.se> (swedish)\par
 - Primoz Planinc <info@planles.net> (slovene)\par
\par
\par
Also thanks to all FR users who sent bugreports and suggestions!\par
\par
----------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
FastReports Inc. \par
\par
\par
e-mail:   info@fast-report.com\par
web site: http://www.fast-report.com\par
}
 